## Subresource Integrity

If you are loading Highlight.js via CDN you may wish to use [Subresource Integrity](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Subresource_Integrity) to guarantee that you are using a legimitate build of the library.

To do this you simply need to add the `integrity` attribute for each JavaScript file you download via CDN. These digests are used by the browser to confirm the files downloaded have not been modified.

```html
<script
  src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/highlight.js/11.10.0/highlight.min.js"
  integrity="sha384-pGqTJHE/m20W4oDrfxTVzOutpMhjK3uP/0lReY0Jq/KInpuJSXUnk4WAYbciCLqT"></script>
<!-- including any other grammars you might need to load -->
<script
  src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/highlight.js/11.10.0/languages/go.min.js"
  integrity="sha384-Mtb4EH3R9NMDME1sPQALOYR8KGqwrXAtmc6XGxDd0XaXB23irPKsuET0JjZt5utI"></script>
```

The full list of digests for every file can be found below.

### Digests

```
sha384-no5/zgQGupzPFGWV8VpJzfQau5/GI2v5b7I45l6nKc8gMOxzBHfgyxNdjQEnmW94 /es/languages/bash.js
sha384-u2nRnIxVxHkjnpxFScw/XgxNVuLz4dXXiT56xbp+Kk2b8AuStNgggHNpM9HO569A /es/languages/bash.min.js
sha384-xjI3wQy5aAhTr4JT9bE8tZaEMtNn/fguEQOem1vG04xZl4Ov0uf8bsLkQUoUzvbo /es/languages/cmake.js
sha384-JdSkDmOvEqN4fTPk/zl0QpN/wGh53J+xJRFtOMdEwhZ2iDgT5a/Dl18e/TChDqjK /es/languages/cmake.min.js
sha384-eM9Op3b0ilZ/iW7jeVAMo//MKcEXHCbg1Vf8SMrqds5LIOeF9+3qaX//TsnbItae /es/languages/cpp.js
sha384-+tDHTmLKfBxXgVksRhLEJM4z9PfcGQ2XsrZMDcdJ1SIlPZrtAR4+m4XUX+zJf5nf /es/languages/cpp.min.js
sha384-40MP6/ECSjYaTAIf+/ibE2FPeFPQ53WbASndXxMOcXiQtgLbGXUStZVuPSngp7OD /es/languages/yaml.js
sha384-vXmhozexi2dHQBoniIEbWI5ZqDxyVfUs96BUGpqjWL1aberSp9pyxbvK8WCNASGB /es/languages/yaml.min.js
sha384-4SbTAv3AX2fuPCpSv6HW3p07YgA7hFfcwG2zJHtYv0ATIt1juD3IXj2NSYwTeIpm /languages/bash.js
sha384-83HvQQdGTWqnRLmgm19NjCb1+/awKJGytUX9sm3HJb2ddZ9Fs1Bst2bZogFjt9rr /languages/bash.min.js
sha384-gXeNvrs51WLYPI/WV54m5BSGtmPSOkEngcs0hrofwSIZ+uVCXW6SwnU75AWUpsiH /languages/cmake.js
sha384-NXUiKRE4iB8J7h3t1Z2aLjDRJslCWi4SWqJpec1z0Y927kNqWejg1uGaEh1P3GCK /languages/cmake.min.js
sha384-M2wpTxQe2N0750xYZ0zTinwbmjsZjdtuS7twUUP2dxtHR0YqhY3JuUFyyhANf9Uy /languages/cpp.js
sha384-/yf54L01PbO6NtVs1Pu9rgfNHbKXanLdNcGVuNa0m5+KiyH+1NpZRDK6idm5VoVl /languages/cpp.min.js
sha384-3KIoWvJ5JGRH35WAkzreEebY8sug+ZWeaOPS2r1KIfznEU9TtPFpxX6sIgtaiA9G /languages/yaml.js
sha384-bMkvdnz+wPu1ro0fqO3BaDWztc7RzSvw05MQFP6bhJKDcwpkrFYTfTFI9ndkP11l /languages/yaml.min.js
sha384-fAWEKmfJtNk9XMAuOD9Vl950/Jp5Eo4cnfE6KLSbjkKIxg/wD8MkgAm9JaQNLXlt /highlight.js
sha384-Jm44Jqj/BCaLKfSxrXZSJmTMhqqPT/EuT4l/wf5DDp1DPAY1tUwP0OG2ps5HaGoW /highlight.min.js
```

